# v1.6.2b
## User-side
### New Features
- Added the **Hand Mortar**, a single-shot grenade launcher.
- Added the **Speedloader**, a full loader for revolvers.
- Added the **Syringe Loader**, a quick loader for shotguns.
- Added the **Crossbow**, an automatic crossbow with a top-loaded 5-bolt magazine.
- Added the **Attachment Glamour**, an appliable item that makes visible weapon mods invisible.

### General Changes
- Renamed the **Gacha Key** and **Gacha Key Bundle** to "Partial Cipher Key" and "Full Cipher Key", respectively.
  - Changed description of these items, as well as the **Supply Transponder**.
- Enabled the Magazine slot of the Revolver.

### Bug Fixes
- Fixed the Pump-Action Shotgun not rotatable after slam-firing.
- Improve arrow trail visuals.
- Fixed the Hi-tech Scope using the regular scope's sprite.

### Balance Changes
- Changed the P-45 Riot Shield's rarity to Legendary.


## Dev-side
### New Features
- Added new damage types: 'project45dark' and 'project45holy', resisted by 'darkResistance' and 'holyResistance'.
  > Resistances are identified as such to increase odds of this mod being compatible with other mods that employ the same resistances.
- Added a "magic number" in 'project45_general.config'.

### General changes
- Added new handling for the 'bulletsPerReload' stat; it can now be rebased to a value of '"full"', which causes the weapon it's modded onto to load the maximum amount of ammo when reloading (i.e. magazine reload).
- Removed printlines from 'project45-enemyflare.lua'
- Added documentation for the primary ability's 'debug' field.
- Renamed 'gunArchetypeDamages' to 'gunArchetypeDps'

### Bug Fixes
- Fixed bug where whitelisting weapons/mods does virtually nothing
