# v1.7.0b
## User-side
### New Features
- Added "shift abilities", which is a separate implementation from PsyNy's Ability Extender. These abilities are either passive or activated by tapping the shift key.
  > Technically they can be activated with right click depending on how they're coded. They're essentially secondary alt abilities.
- Added the **Gun Shield**, a passive regular variant of the A.R.M.D.L.O shield.
- Added the **F.I.S.T. Gauntlet**, an experimental close-range punching weapon.
- Added the **Wrist Gun**, a wrist-mounted pistol that can accept underbarrel mods.
- Added **The Protector**, a hand-craftable and highly-modifiable weapon.
- Added the **Elementoil© Vanilla Flavour**, an applied utility that changes the weapon's elemental type into a random vanilla one. (Beyond improving compatibility with PsyNy's Retrofitting Station, it has no effect on the weapon.)
- Added the **Choke** mod for shotguns.
- Added an explosive burst alt ability to the **Malorian Arms 3516**.
- Added a custom alt ability to **Fleetly Fading**, "Scarlet Flash":
  - Scarlet Flash shoots an initial "slash" projectile in the direction of the mouse, then distributes 10 slashes among nearby enemies.
  - Its damage is calculated as such: `AD (ability damage) = baseDamage * reloadRatingMult * stockAmmoMult * passiveDamageMult * critDamage{reloadRating} * healthMult`
  - If Scarlet Flash is not used with Project 45 weapons, it scales off energy instead.
- **If you have StarExtensions or OpenStarbound, you can now reload your weapons with the "V" key!** You can rebind this key by typing '/binds' in the chat.
### General Changes
- Improved tooltip layout:
  - Added a separate pane for a weapon's technical properties.
  - The tooltip now hints the mods a weapon accepts.
- Improved the description of each weapon.
- Improved the way categories are conveyed:
  - All weapons now state their respective category as-is. ("Universal", "Ballistic", "Energy", "Experimental", "Special")
  - Special and Experimental weapons (that are actually Ballistic/Energy weapons) have a different flair to their categories.
- Renamed "Enemy Radar Mod" to "**Enemy Radar**", and changed it to a shift ability mod
- Changed **Shift Reload** to a shift ability mod
- Improved ammo mods: they should now apply an elemental type on the weapon.
- The **Enemy Flare** now spawns a custom NPC type equipped with Project 45 weapons.
  - Improved spawn algorithm of the Enemy Flare.
- Added innate 'manualReload' slot for the manual reload "enabler" mods
- Changed **Phase Shift** ability VFX.
- Improved gunfire VFX.
- Improved gunfire SFX of the **Service Rifle**
- Improved **Machine Gun** rendering.
### Bug Fixes
- Added rudimentary compatibility with Psyny's Ability Extender.
- Fixed a sprite error on the Itano Missiles.
- Fixed a sprite error on arrows fired by some Project 45 weapons.
- Fixed perfect charge range not appearing in ui if the range starts from the very beginning of overcharge (i.e. 0%)
- Fixed the Underbarrel Shotgun using pistol sounds when firing.  
### Balance Changes
- Removed cheat code from the A.R.M.D.L.O Shield.
- Decreased spread of the **Kuva Bramma**.
- Removed two-handed override of the **Phase Shifter**. When the mod is applied on two-handed weapons, the player is given access to its prolonged phase shift ability. Otherwise, the player can only dodge with the mod on.
## Dev-side
### New Features
- Added "shiftAbility" as a valid ability slot for ability mods
  - made buildscript properly archetype shift ability mods
- Added pre-installation checkers for the shift ability
- Added code that applies shift abilities on weapon
- Added 'project45scarletflash', a new projectile for the upcoming alt ability of Fleetly Fading
- Added 'project45blot' particles for the aforementioned alt ability
- Added back hand rendering for to guns so that they look different depending on which direction the player is facing (similar to shields)
### General Changes
- Adjusted disassembly code to accomodate shift ability changes
- Removed shift reload passive script in accordance with the shift ability changes
- Changed 'project45armadillo' to a shift ability
  - Changed modCategory of project45-shiftreload
- Refactored primary ability crit calculation.
### Bug Fixes
- Added handler for null stances passed to `weapon:setStance()`
- Removed redundant code from project45gunneo.lua
- Improved animation script compilation logic of buildscript
- Improved animation scripts of enemy radar, flash laser, grenade launcher and gun scope so that they call the old update function
- Commented out some loginfo calls