# v1.8.0b

## User Side

### New Features
- Added stat mods to monster and treasure drop tables.
  - Added **The Admin Mod** to the possible XSSR stat mod drops. (10% chance)
  - Added stack limit of 1 to The Admin Mod.
- Added the **Gunsmith Addon**, a craftable replicator addon that allows you to craft rare Project 45 items.
- Added the **Bayonet**, a weapon ability that deals world-level-scaling damage over two strikes:
    ```
    totalDamage = worldLevel * powerMultiplier^2
    ```
- Added the **Underbarrel Chainsaw**, a more powerful "Bayonet" that also inflicts _Bleeding_.
- Added the **Bladed Arrows** mod, which inflicts the _Bleeding_ status effect.
  - _Bleeding_ deals 0.5% max HP as true damage every . This status effect stacks on reapplication.
- Added the **Homing Blades** ammo mod for the Sawblader.
- Added the **Gravipulls** ammo mod, a weaker version of the Gravibombs ammo mod.

### Fixes
- Improved visuals when weapon switches stances.
- Fixed wildcard stat mods not showing which stats they can potentially give before being given a seed.
- Fixed Scarlet Flash slashes appearing on allies.
- Fixed weapon cursor UI not disappearing when switching to the Supply Transponder.
- Fixed some Powerstave ammo mods having inappropriate muzzle flashes.
- Fixed bug preventing the MLG Scope damage buff from applying
- Fixed bug related to fullbright gun mod sprites.
- Fixed bug allowing Phase Shifted players to deal damage.
- Fixed script crash in project45status effect.
- Fixed bug that prevented click sounds to trigger when attempting to fire a vanilla alt ability.
- Fixed bug that prevented Fleetly Fading's passive from working.

### Balance Changes
- Reduced Neo-Compound Bow's reload cost from 50 to 10
- Added more sources of Project 45 Item Spawns:
  - capsules now have a 50% chance to spawn project 45 items of rarity based on world level
  - ancient pots now have a 50% chance to spawn project 45 items of rarity based on world level
- Portable G.D.K.s now drop occasionally.
- Incrased the base damage multiplier of the Gravibombs ammo mod from 1x to 1.1x
- The projectiles from the Flechette Shells mod now inflict _Bleeding_.
  - Decreased projectile count from 5 to 4.
  - Added a 0.8x base damage modifier.

### General Changes

## Dev Side

### New Features
- Implemented hitscan and beam tile damage.
- Added an object that will allow you to craft Project 45 items from recipes with the 'project45craftable' tag
- Added support for 'project45craftable'-tagged recipes
- Added element images for Project 45 Dark and Holy elements
- optimized tooltip formatter function of buildproject45mod.lua
- Add partial support for randomized weapons by adding a 'vanillaOffset' field, which overrides the 'baseOffset' field; useful for positioning the "middle" animated parts of (vanilla) guns.
- Added support for multiple final damage modifiers.

### Changes
- Changed how the '/project45-test' macro works; it now spawns a developer test kit reward bag containing a combat rifle, ammo stocks, an admin mod, a max level mod and enemy flares.
- Changed how passives are implemented; they must now inherit the 'Project45Passive' class.
- Changed how damage per shot is calculated, enabling support for applying final damage modifiers in an organized manner.

### Fixes
- Refactored code; please consult the commits for details on the refactors.