# v1.9.0
## New
- Added the **Incinerate** ammo mod for the Powerstave, which turns it into a flamethrower.
- Added _Challenge Scaling_, which allows players to reduce their Project 45 weapons' damage should they feel that they're too powerful. This feature decreases Project 45 weapons' final damage by the percent set in the settings.
  - Added the **Challenger's Will** mod, which incentivizes increasing the Challenge Scaling by rewarding currency per kill (or after dealing 450 health damage)
- Added the **Auto-9**, based on Robocop's Auto-9 pistol.
- Added distinct chamber indicator sprites for ballistic, energy and experimental weapons. Some weapons are also given their own chamber indicators.
- Added the **Pyroclast**, a weapon that deals substantial fire damage but explodes and jams when you overcharge it.
- Added the **Bullet Cutter**, a barrel mod for ballistic weapons that increases multishot. Incompatible with ballistic shotguns and other certain ballistic weapons.
- Added the **Project 45 catalog**; can be bought in the Project 45 Gun Shop
- Added distinct projectile sprites for the bladed, explosive, elec and poison arrows.
- Added dedicated labels for charge and trigger time on the gun tooltip.
- Added mods that modify the gun's cocking and reload time
- Added the **Shrapnel** and **Reaper**, a lever-action and revolver based on the Zweibrandyr.
- Added the **Phasma**, a plasma pistol.
- Added the **Smart Pistol** from Titanfall.
- Added the **Electric Zi**, which can be obtained by applying the transformer kit of the same name onto Machine Pistols 
  - The Electric Zi (Transformation Kit) is craftable at the Gunsmith Addon, under the new "TRNS" section
  - Transformer mods act as Portable GDKs; the guns are disassembled when applied, and opening the disassembled weapon returns the installed mods and the new weapon.
  - Transformation can be disassembled; doing so returns the transformer mod.
  - Transformation kits are consumed upon use.


## Changes
- Changed tracer rendering method for almost all projectiles. Instead of spawning a streak particle of static length, projectiles now use a script that draw a streak particle from their previous position to their current position.
- Changed sprite used by almost all bullets, arrows and other projectiles into an animated one; The above change causes projectiles fired by other entities to not have streaks, so the sprites were improved to look good even without the streaks.
- Firetime is now divided into its constituents: charge time, cycle/cock time and trigger time. This should make it clear how fast guns can dole out damage.
- Increased recoil reduction of the Violium Alloy Parts from default to 3.
- Added an indicator for Awakened Weapons
- Added tooltip information on what to do once you've applied Essential Gun Oil onto a gun. (Replaces the gun's flavor text)
- Changed rarity of Portable G.D.K from essential to common.
- Changed name of Neo-Compound Bow to 'Neo-Penobscot Bow'.
- Improved Electric Ammo VFX
- Improved Energy Weapon SFX
- Demoted Magma Spitter into an SSR experimental weapon, and changed its item ID. Old Magma Spitters are marked with a red '(!)'; it is recommended you replace them with the changed Magma Spitter.
- Improved the Project 45 Manual codex.
- Halved price of the Supply Transponder (Gacha puller) and both kinds of Cipher Keys (Gacha tickets).
- Added Cipher Keys to the drop tables
- Removed stray crafting recipe from the Gunsmith Addon
- Decreased sell factor of the Reimburser from 1x to 0.8x.
- Added increased selling prices for particular items sold via the Reimburser:
  - reagents
  - Unique Project 45 Items
- Balanced the effects of Ammo Consume Chance; If a gun fails to consume ammo, then it will consume exactly 1 energy or 1 stocked ammo.
- Changed bullet impact SFX
- Add bullet impact sfx to hitscans, chain hitscans, beams, chain beams, and summoned projectiles.
- Reworked item drops so that they drop in the form of cases and unknown stat mods, instead of themselves, so that gathering them won't result in a cluttered inventory. XSSR stat mods still drop as themselves.
- Decreased the weight of the max level mod.
- Increased the weight of the SSR Wildcard mod.
- Made stat drops more consistent:
  - for planet difficulties 0-1, there is a 6% chance to drop a tier 1 unknown stat mod, and a 4% chance to either drop a level mod or a Beginner's Crutch.
  - for planet difficulties 2-3, there is a 3% chance to drop a tier 2 (diff. 2) unknown stat mod and a 1% chance to drop a level mod.
  - for planet difficulties 4-5, there is a 1% chance to drop a tier 3 unknown stat mod, or a level mod.
  - for planet difficulty 6, there is a 0.5% chance to drop either ONE tier 3 unknown stat mod or a level mod.
  - for planet difficulty 7 and beyond, there is a 0.5% chance to drop either ONE tier 3 unknown stat mod or a XSSR mod (i.e. either a god mod or an admin mod).
- moved level mod drop to respective unknown stat mod drop tables
- fixed bad item weights in drop tables.
- The Kinetic Arbiter and Gauss Rifle no longer ignore terrain when shooting at full charge.

# Balancing
- The following projectiles have been given arming distances of 10 blocks:
  - The default projectiles of the Hand Mortar, Grenade Launcher and Rocket Launcher
  - Thermite Grenades
  - Cluster Grenades
- Added a random speed modifier (mean = 1, st. dev = 0.1) to projectiles fired from guns, improving how they look.
- decreased project45splitblade projectile speed from 150 to 100
- increased project45splitblade time to live from 0.05s to 0.1s
- decreased project45splitbladefragment speed from 150 to 90
- Nerfed the ability to get rich easily with Project 45 items.
  - Decreased price of almost all project 45 items to 10% of their original value.
  - Items sold in the Project 45 gun shop now have a 10x inflated price point.
- cock time and mid-cock delay stat modifications are now separated from fire time stat modification, and joined into reload time stat modification
- changed fire time stat mod numbers so that the approximate breakpoint at which multiplicative mods are more beneficial than additive mods is at 500ms (cycle/cock time).
- changed how fire time stat mods are applied; instead of divvying up the additive cycle time modifier, the modifier is directly added to all aspects of the gun's firing time (cycleTime, chargeTime and overchargeTime, and fireTime a.k.a. trigger time)

## Fixes
- Removed the ability to install mods on weapons with a non-matching category.
- Fixed script crash when upgrading weapons on a Weapon Upgrade Anvil.
- Fixed Enemy Flares spawning enemies in ship worlds
- Disabled lowercase-global warnings in apply.lua
- Fixed crash caused by disassembling guns.
- Refactored NPC main behavior script so that it calls the old init() function instead of completely overwriting it
- Fixed script crashing issues with Fleetly Fading's alt ability.
- Fixed bug with manual reload alt ability
- Improved how buildproject45mod.lua changes the string of the slot shown in the mod's tooltip.
<!-- Motivation: I attempted to make a subsonic ammo mod that turns semi/auto guns manual-feed. Despite showing that I have indeed made an "ammo" mod, the presence of augment.gun makes my code classify it as a mod belonging to the "unknown" slot unless I specify the slot it belongs to. If I do specify the slot, the slot shows up in the tooltip as "ammoType", which looks ugly. This change will allow me and other modders to be explicit with the slot under the hood. -->
- Added stat mod tooltip colors to crit damage
- Updated description of The Admin Mod
- Fix possible cause of script crashes

## Mod Compatibility
- LR's Dynamic Equipment
  - Added optional dependency on LR's Dynamic Equipment
  - Added dynamic equipment stat rolls
  - Added upgradeCapacity to LR's dynamic equipment stat pool
  - Added code to accomodate bonuses added by LR's dynamic equipment
  - Fixed "Damage" dynamic equipment modifier not applying

## Bugs
- Terrain-ignoring hitscans don't work.
  
## New (Modders)
- Added "challenger" innate slot
- Added player property 'project45_canSetSettings' that signifies that they can change the mod's settings
- Added project45-devgdk for quick disassembly.
- added a way for passives to act on load and save state
- added a way for passives to force-jam a weapon
- added a crude way for passives to prevent a weapon from reloading.
- added a way for passives to determine the weapon's position
- added new projectiles
- added new macros:
  - /project45-guns-unique
  - /project45-guns-ballistic
  - /project45-guns-energy
  - /project45-guns-experimental
- added the 'print()' function to project45util
- added a projectile script that causes projectiles to execute different actionOnReaps depending on whether it surpassed the arming distance or not.
- added a new format for configuring quick reload timeframes beyond the array format, e.g.:
```
"quickReloadParameters": {
  "goodTime": 0.5,  // duration of good reload timeframe in seconds, will never be longer than reload time
  "perfectTime": 0.25,  // duration of perfect reload timeframe in seconds, will never be longer than goodTime
  "reloadOffsetRatio": 0.5,  // where along reload time should the quick reload bar center be
  "perfectOffsetRatio": 0.6  // where along reload time should the perfect offset ratio be
}
```
- Add 'jamChanceMult' to modifiable stats
- Add checks for gun modifications:
```json
{
  "augment": {
    "gun": {
      "primaryAbility": {
        "manualFeed": {
          "checks": [
            {
              "path": "primaryAbility.semi",
              "operation": "!=",
              "value": false
            }
          ],
          "operation": "replace",
          "value": true
        },
        "jamChanceMult": [
          {
            "operation": "add",
            "value": -0.5
          },
          {
            "checks": [
              {
                "path": "primaryAbility.semi",
                "operation": "!=",
                "value": false,
                "next": "or"
              },
              {
                "path": "primaryAbility.autoChargeAfterFire",
                "operation": "!=",
                "value": true
              }
            ],
            "operation": "add",
            "value": 0.2
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```
- Stances: 'weaponRotationCenter' is now interpolated and is affected by 'snap'
- Stances: added support for custom stances during the ejecting and feeding phase of a weapon.
- Added field for the project45gunshop interface that allows specific items to retain their original price when sold through the shop.
- add new macro to spawn in fire time mods for testing
- Add support for advanced hitscan VFX:
```jsonc
{
  "hitscanParameters": {
      "vfxParameters": {
        "mode": "bezier",  // "bezier", "lightning", "bezierLightning", "linear" (linear is just better-looking regular hitscans)
        "segments": 8,
        "controlPointRatio": 0.5,  // only matters if bezier
        "intensity": 1,  // only matters if lightning

        // dictates timing of segment fade-out.
        // If set to 0, all segments fade out at the same time.
        // If set to 1, segments fade out one-by-one; segments closer to origin disappear faster.
        "decay": 0.5,
      }
  }
}
```
- Added jamChanceMult to modifiable stats
- Added a framework and template for transformation kits; these mods completely transform a weapon into a different activeitem entirely.
  - Transformation kits require an activeitem itemid whitelist.

## Changes (Modders)
- Changed where innate slot list is obtained
  - apparently augment scripts have no access to the `root` table. Changed the location of the innate slots array from the config file to a constants lua script
- Improved innate mod slot check logic by moving innate slots to config
- Improved tooltip generation logic by moving excluded slots to config
- Changes to config.tooltipFields are now moved to parameters.tooltipFields
- Passive init function is now called further down the main init function.
- Terrain-ignoring hitscans have been removed. I've yet to figure out how to make this really work; this feature will be re-added in the future once I figure it out.

## Fixes (Modders)
- The ability type 'project45gunfireswitch' should work properly now.

# Comments

> Kuva Bramma arrows were not given an arming distance; I've yet to decide how to balance this weapon -- for now, self-damage will be the tradeoff for using this unique weapon.